"SPPARKS WWW Site"_sws :c
:link(sws,../spparks.html)

:line

SPPARKS Features :h3

SPPARKS is a Monte Carlo code that has algorithms for kinetic Monte
Carlo (KMC), rejection KMC (rKMC), and Metropolis Monte Carlo (MMC).
On-lattice and off-lattice applications with spatial sites on which
"events" occur can be simulated in parallel.

KMC is also called true KMC or rejection-free KMC.  rKMC is also
called null-event MC.  In a generic sense the code's KMC and rKMC
solvers catalog a list of events, each with an associated probability,
choose a single event to perform, and advance time by the correct
amount.  Events may be chosen individually at random, or a sweep of
enumarated sites can be performed to select possible events in a more
ordered fashion.

Applications are implemented in SPPARKS which define events and their
probabilities and acceptance/rejection criteria.  They are coupled to
solvers or sweepers to perform KMC or rKMC or MMC simulations.

These are three kinds of applications in SPPARKS:

on-lattice
off-lattice
general :ul

On-lattice applications define static event sites with a fixed
neighbor connectivity.  Off-lattice applications define mobile event
sites such as particles.  A particle's neighbors are typically
specified by a cutoff distance.  General applications have no
spatial component.

The set of on-lattice applications currently in SPPARKS are:

diffusion model
Ising model
Potts model
membrane model :ul

The set of off-lattice applications currently in SPPARKS are:

Metropolis atomic relaxation model :ul

The set of general applications currently in SPPARKS are:

biochemcial reaction network model
test driver for solvers using a synthetic biochemical network :ul

These are the KMC solvers currently available in SPPARKS and their
scaling properties:

linear search, O(N)
tree search, O(logN)
composition-rejection search, O(1) :ul

Code details :h4

SPPARKS is written in C++.  It runs on single-processor desktop or
laptop machines, but for some applications, can also be run in
parallel.  SPPARKS will run on any parallel machine that compiles C++
and supports the "MPI"_mpi message-passing library.  This includes
distributed- or shared-memory machines.

In parallel, a geometric partitioning of the simulation domain is
performed.  Sub-partitioning of processor domains into colors or
quadrants (2d) and octants (3d) is done to enable multiple events to
be performed on multiple processors simultaneously.  Communication of
boundary information is performed as needed.

Parallelism can also be invoked to perform multiple runs on a
collection of processors, for statistical puposes.

Extensibility :h4

SPPARKS is designed to be easy to modify and extend.  For example, new
solvers and sweeping rules can be added, as can new applications.
Applications can define new commands which are read from the input
script.

Pre- and post-processing :h4

Our group has written and released a separate toolkit called
"Pizza.py"_pizza which provides tools which can be used to setup,
analyze, plot, and visualize data for SPPARKS simulations.  Pizza.py
is written in "Python"_python and is available for download from "the
Pizza.py WWW site"_pizza.

:link(pizza,http://www.cs.sandia.gov/~sjplimp/pizza.html)
:link(python,http://www.python.org)

Open-source :h4

SPPARKS is a freely-available open-source code, distributed under the
terms of the "GNU Public License"_gnu, which means you can use or
modify the code however you wish.  See "this page"_open_source.html
for a brief discussion of the open-source philosophy.

:line

More details about the code are provided in the "SPPARKS
documentation"_doc/Manual.html.

:link(mpi,http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi)
:link(gnu,http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html)
